src/content/how-to/create-a-snapshot-gitpod-workspace.md, before:

---
title: "How to create a snapshot in Gitpod"
subtitle: "Gitpod snapshots allow your to share your coding project (and workspace configuration) in just a couple of clicks"
tags: ["gitpod"]
authors: []

---

El siguiente artículo describe cómo es el proceso de la entrega de proyectos para que un mentor lo revise en [4Geeks.com](https://4geeks.com/).

## Snapshots

Para proceder a la entrega de un proyecto debes enviarnos un snapshot, esto es una función que incluye Gitpod y que nos permitirá revisar tu código una vez lo culmines. Si tienes curiosidad de cómo funciona y por qué fue creado, [acá](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/workspaces/collaboration) te dejamos un link. 

### Pasos a seguir

1. Ingresa al workspace (Gitpod) del proyecto que deseas entregar. 
2. Haz click en el menú (las tres rayitas), al lado de Explorer y se deplegará una opciones.

![gitpod1](https://storage.googleapis.com/breathecode-asset-images/7e130553ca7ae37935149326b300406627326603f12621e25845745cca53b0ba.png)

3. Selecciona la opción: Gitpod: Share Workspace Snapshot 

![gitpod2](https://i.imgur.com/vouchzg.png)

4. Abajo en la esquina inferior derecha aparecerá un mensaje indicando que se está creando el snapshot 

![gitpod3](https://i.imgur.com/ELVK28B.png)

5. Una vez creado te dará la opción de copiar el link.

![gitpod4](https://i.imgur.com/ciPSSu9.png)

6. Copia y pega ese link en la entrega del proyecto y envía tu código a revisión de forma exitosa.

Commit message:

create-a-snapshot-workspace.md readme in english was created

src/content/how-to/create-a-snapshot-gitpod-workspace.md, after:

---
title: "How to create a snapshot in Gitpod"
subtitle: "Gitpod snapshots allow your to share your coding project (and workspace configuration) in just a couple of clicks"
tags: ["gitpod"]
authors: []

---

The following article describes what the project submission process looks like for a mentor to review at [4Geeks.com](https://4geeks.com/).

## Snapshots

To proceed with the delivery of a project you must send us a snapshot, this is a function that Gitpod includes and that will allow us to review your code once you finish it. If you are curious about how it works and why it was created, [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/workspaces/collaboration) we leave you a link.

### Steps to follow

1. Enter the workspace (Gitpod) of the project you want to deliver.
2. Click on the menu (the three lines), next to Explorer and an option will be displayed.

![gitpod1](https://storage.googleapis.com/breathecode-asset-images/7e130553ca7ae37935149326b300406627326603f12621e25845745cca53b0ba.png)

3. Select the option: Gitpod. Share Workspace Snapshot.

![gitpod2](https://i.imgur.com/vouchzg.png)

4. Down in the lower right corner a message will appear indicating that the snapshot is being created.

![gitpod3](https://i.imgur.com/ELVK28B.png)

5. Once created it will give you the option to copy the link.

![gitpod4](https://i.imgur.com/ciPSSu9.png)

6. Copy and paste that link into the project submission and successfully submit your code for review.
